bindings/rust/libgpiod-sys/README.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Linaro Ltd.
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Viresh Kumar <viresh.kumar@linaro.org>
-->

# Generated libgpiod-sys Rust FFI bindings
Automatically generated Rust FFI bindings via
	[bindgen](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-bindgen).

## Build requirements

A compatible variant of the C library needs to detectable using pkg-config.
Alternatively, one can inform the build system about the location of the
libs and headers by setting environment variables. The mechanism for that is
documented in the
[system_deps crate documentation](https://docs.rs/system-deps/6.1.0/system_deps/#overriding-build-flags).

If installing libgpiod is undesired, one can set the following environent
variables in order to build against the intermediate build results of a `make`
build of the C lib (paths are relative to the Cargo.toml):

	export SYSTEM_DEPS_LIBGPIOD_NO_PKG_CONFIG=1
	export SYSTEM_DEPS_LIBGPIOD_SEARCH_NATIVE="<PATH-TO-LIBGPIOD>/lib/.libs/"
	export SYSTEM_DEPS_LIBGPIOD_LIB=gpiod
	export SYSTEM_DEPS_LIBGPIOD_INCLUDE="<PATH-TO-LIBGPIOD>/include/"

## License

This project is licensed under either of

- [Apache License](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0), Version 2.0
- [BSD-3-Clause License](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause)

Commit message:

bindings: rust: mention the libgpiod crate from libgpiod-sys
If people view this README.md on crates.io [1], they likely want to
use the safe wrapper instead. So this hints the existence of that other
crate.

[1] https://crates.io/crates/libgpiod-sys

Acked-by: Viresh Kumar <viresh.kumar@linaro.org>
Signed-off-by: Erik Schilling <erik.schilling@linaro.org>
Signed-off-by: Bartosz Golaszewski <bartosz.golaszewski@linaro.org>

bindings/rust/libgpiod-sys/README.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Linaro Ltd.
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Viresh Kumar <viresh.kumar@linaro.org>
-->

# Generated libgpiod-sys Rust FFI bindings
Automatically generated Rust FFI bindings via
	[bindgen](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-bindgen).

Typically, you will want to use the safe `libgpiod` wrapper crate instead of
these unsafe wrappers around the C lib.

## Build requirements

A compatible variant of the C library needs to detectable using pkg-config.
Alternatively, one can inform the build system about the location of the
libs and headers by setting environment variables. The mechanism for that is
documented in the
[system_deps crate documentation](https://docs.rs/system-deps/6.1.0/system_deps/#overriding-build-flags).

If installing libgpiod is undesired, one can set the following environent
variables in order to build against the intermediate build results of a `make`
build of the C lib (paths are relative to the Cargo.toml):

	export SYSTEM_DEPS_LIBGPIOD_NO_PKG_CONFIG=1
	export SYSTEM_DEPS_LIBGPIOD_SEARCH_NATIVE="<PATH-TO-LIBGPIOD>/lib/.libs/"
	export SYSTEM_DEPS_LIBGPIOD_LIB=gpiod
	export SYSTEM_DEPS_LIBGPIOD_INCLUDE="<PATH-TO-LIBGPIOD>/include/"

## License

This project is licensed under either of

- [Apache License](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0), Version 2.0
- [BSD-3-Clause License](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause)
