bindings/python/README.md, before:

<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 -->
<!-- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2023 Phil Howard <phil@gadgetoid.com> -->

# gpiod

These are the official Python bindings for [libgpiod](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/libs/libgpiod/libgpiod.git/about/).

The gpiod library has been vendored into this package for your convenience and
this version of gpiod is independent from your system package.

Binary wheels are not provided. The source package requires python3-dev.

## Rationale

The new character device interface guarantees all allocated resources are
freed after closing the device file descriptor and adds several new features
that are not present in the obsolete sysfs interface (like event polling,
setting/reading multiple values at once or open-source and open-drain GPIOs).

Unfortunately interacting with the linux device file can no longer be done
using only standard command-line tools. This is the reason for creating a
library encapsulating the cumbersome, ioctl-based kernel-userspace interaction
in a set of convenient functions and opaque data structures.

## Breaking Changes

As of v2.0.2 we have replaced the unofficial, pure-Python "gpiod". The official
gpiod is not backwards compatible.

You should ensure you specify at least v2.0.2 for the official API. Versions
1.5.4 and prior are the deprecated, unofficial, pure-Python bindings.

## Installing

You will need `python3-dev`, on Debian/Ubuntu you can install this with:

```
sudo apt install python3-dev
```

And then install gpiod with:

```
pip install gpiod
```

You can optionally depend upon your system gpiod by installing with:

```
LINK_SYSTEM_LIBGPIOD=1 pip install gpiod
```

If you still need the deprecated pure-Python bindings, install with:

```
pip install gpiod==1.5.4
```

## Examples

Check a GPIO chip character device exists:

```python
import gpiod

gpiod.is_gpiochip_device("/dev/gpiochip0")

```

Get information about a GPIO chip character device:

```python
import gpiod

with gpiod.Chip("/dev/gpiochip0") as chip:
    info = chip.get_info()
    print(f"{info.name} [{info.label}] ({info.num_lines} lines)")
```

Blink an LED, or toggling a GPIO line:

```python
import time

from gpiod.line import Direction, Value

LINE = 5

with gpiod.request_lines(
    "/dev/gpiochip0",
    consumer="blink-example",
    config={
        LINE: gpiod.LineSettings(
            direction=Direction.OUTPUT, output_value=Value.ACTIVE
        )
    },
) as request:
    while True:
        request.set_value(LINE, Value.ACTIVE)
        time.sleep(1)
        request.set_value(LINE, Value.INACTIVE)
        time.sleep(1)
```

## Testing

The test suite for the python bindings can be run by calling:

```
make python-tests-run
```

from the `libgpiod/bindings/python` directory as root (necessary to be able
to create the **gpio-sims** used for testing).

Commit message:

bindings: python: add a script to generate armv7l wheels
Add a 'generate_armv7l_wheels.sh' shell script that makes armv7l Python
wheels for combinations of libc (glibc, musl) and selected CPython
versions.

Currently, Python wheels are generated for the x86_64 and aarch64 CPU
architectures only, using the 'cibuildwheel' tool invoked by the existing
'generate_pypi_artifacts.sh' script. The 'cibuildwheel' tool, in turn,
relies on the PyPA manylinux and musllinux Docker images that, sadly, are
not available for the armv7l architecture that is still common in edge
devices.

It was previously suggested that Raspberry Pi users could rely on the
piwheels.org repository for armv7l gpiod wheels. Alas, that repository
lags significantly behind the latest CPython releases. It currently
provides gpiod wheels for CPython versions 3.9 and 3.11 only, while
CPython 3.12 was released a year ago and CPython 3.13 is about to be
released.

It turns out that armv7l Python wheels can be relatively easily generated
without 'cibuildwheel', in about 160 lines of structured shell script that
introduces no new dependencies (the script depends on Docker and
binfmt_misc only). Instead of manylinux and musllinux Docker images, the
script uses the official Python image on Docker Hub, which is available
for armv7l in Debian and Alpine flavours (for glibc and musl libc
respectively).

Signed-off-by: Paulo Ferreira de Castro <pefcastro@gmail.com>

bindings/python/README.md, after:

<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 -->
<!-- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2023 Phil Howard <phil@gadgetoid.com> -->

# gpiod

These are the official Python bindings for [libgpiod](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/libs/libgpiod/libgpiod.git/about/).

The gpiod library has been vendored into this package for your convenience and
this version of gpiod is independent from your system package.

Binary wheels are not provided. The source package requires python3-dev.

## Rationale

The new character device interface guarantees all allocated resources are
freed after closing the device file descriptor and adds several new features
that are not present in the obsolete sysfs interface (like event polling,
setting/reading multiple values at once or open-source and open-drain GPIOs).

Unfortunately interacting with the linux device file can no longer be done
using only standard command-line tools. This is the reason for creating a
library encapsulating the cumbersome, ioctl-based kernel-userspace interaction
in a set of convenient functions and opaque data structures.

## Breaking Changes

As of v2.0.2 we have replaced the unofficial, pure-Python "gpiod". The official
gpiod is not backwards compatible.

You should ensure you specify at least v2.0.2 for the official API. Versions
1.5.4 and prior are the deprecated, unofficial, pure-Python bindings.

## Installing

You will need `python3-dev`, on Debian/Ubuntu you can install this with:

```
sudo apt install python3-dev
```

And then install gpiod with:

```
pip install gpiod
```

You can optionally depend upon your system gpiod by installing with:

```
LINK_SYSTEM_LIBGPIOD=1 pip install gpiod
```

If you still need the deprecated pure-Python bindings, install with:

```
pip install gpiod==1.5.4
```

Pre-built binary `manylinux` and `musllinux` wheels are published to PyPI.org
for selected platforms, to speed up installation. `armv7l` users: Note that the
pre-built armv7l wheels make use of the VFP instruction set extension (a.k.a.
hard float). If your system does not support VFP, `pip install` will rebuild the
wheel from source on a `manylinux` system, but possibly not on a `musllinux`
system. If you have a musl-libc-based armv7l system without VFP support and you
come across issues using the pre-built gpiod wheel, please get in touch.

## Examples

Check a GPIO chip character device exists:

```python
import gpiod

gpiod.is_gpiochip_device("/dev/gpiochip0")

```

Get information about a GPIO chip character device:

```python
import gpiod

with gpiod.Chip("/dev/gpiochip0") as chip:
    info = chip.get_info()
    print(f"{info.name} [{info.label}] ({info.num_lines} lines)")
```

Blink an LED, or toggling a GPIO line:

```python
import time

from gpiod.line import Direction, Value

LINE = 5

with gpiod.request_lines(
    "/dev/gpiochip0",
    consumer="blink-example",
    config={
        LINE: gpiod.LineSettings(
            direction=Direction.OUTPUT, output_value=Value.ACTIVE
        )
    },
) as request:
    while True:
        request.set_value(LINE, Value.ACTIVE)
        time.sleep(1)
        request.set_value(LINE, Value.INACTIVE)
        time.sleep(1)
```

## Testing

The test suite for the python bindings can be run by calling:

```
make python-tests-run
```

from the `libgpiod/bindings/python` directory as root (necessary to be able
to create the **gpio-sims** used for testing).
